## CAPP 30122 / CS 122 Final Project
### CHB Group
#### Xi Chen, Jie Heng, Chen Bao

---
###  01 Data Prep and Visualization: Chen Bao 

Data prep and visualization folder contains files including:

##### crimes_2001_to_present.csv

This is the original CSV file we downloaded from City of Chicago Data Portal (last updated on Feb 20th), dataset reflects reported     incidents of crime (with the exception of murders where data exists for each victim) that occurred in the City of Chicago from 2001 to present.

https://data.cityofchicago.org/Public-Safety/Crimes-2001-to-present/ijzp-q8t2

##### Modify_csv_data.py 
Read in the original data file and format the data for future use

##### Get_security_alert.py 
Crawl data from University of Chicago security alerts archive

https://safety-security.uchicago.edu/services/security_alerts/

##### FBI_code.py
Crawl data from Chicago Police Department Clear Map Crime Summary 

http://gis.chicagopolice.org/clearmap_crime_sums/crime_types.html#N14

##### Merge_two_dataset.py 
Merge data output from Modify_csv_data.py and Get_Security_Alert.py to get the "Final_data.csv"

##### Convert_to_dict.py
Convert the output from Modify_csv_data.py into a dictionary and export as json file

##### Data_viz.py 
Use Python Seaborn package to create data visualizations and perform data analysis 


---
###  02 Algorithm: Xi Chen
   
   In the "02 Algorithm" folder, there are four python codes:

##### (1) Compute_crime_weights.py

Compute dangerous weights/scores for each crime location.

##### (2) Subset_date_by_time.py

Divide the crime dataset into twenty-four hourly subsets.
   
##### (3) Choose_safest_route.py

This file includes all the functions that are used to find the safest route.
   
##### (4) Get_route_for_map.py

This file calls the functions in "Choose_safest_route.py" to get the results.
  
#### An sample run for the the Algorithm codes:

1. Download the four python codes above from the "02 Algorithm" folder, and download the "Final_data.csv" from the "Data" folder inside the "02 Algorithm" folder.

2. In your computer, create a folder called "Algorithm", save the four algorithm's python files in this folder; inside the "Algorithm" folder, create a folder called "Data", save the "Final_data.csv" in this folder.

3. In the VM, go to the directory "./Algorithm", run the following two commands:
   
   python Compute_crime_weights.py
   
   python Subset_date_by_time.py
   
   The second command takes about 45 seconds. After executing these two commands, in the "Data" folder, twenty-five new csv files will be created: one is called "data_with_weight.csv", and the other are the subsets of the crime data according to twenty-four hours.

3. In the VM, install the google map package by running the following commands:

   sudo pip3 install -U googlemaps
   
4. In the "Get_route_for_map.py" python file, between line 17-22, there is an example of user' inputs. Run the following command:

   python Get_route_for_map.py
   
   There are several outputs which show different versions of the route in the process of the algorithm. You can change the user's inputs to have another sample test. There is one important thing that needs be kept in mind: when entering the departure date and time, the user has to enter a future date and time, or at least the current date/time, because the Google Map API would only accept the future or at least current date and time. 
   
---
   
### 03 Website: Jie Heng

   In the "03 Website" folder, there are four main folders for four apps(.idea and .windows are generated by django):

#### 1. Home

* Templates: 

  + home page(home.html)

  + base template(new.html)

#### 2. Route

* Templates:

  + form page(index.html)
        
  + map page(map.html)


* Python files are written by Xi Chen: 

   > Choose_safest_route.py, Compute_crime_weights.py,  Get_route_for_map.py, Subset_data_by_time.py. 

   > Only Choose_safest_route.py is imported in views.py,  Compute_crime_weights.py and Subset_data_by_time.py are used to generated csv files in route/Data that are used to filter crime data by time and date. Get_route_for_map.py is used in views.py, to get a list of waypoints 

* Other python files are written by Jie Heng:

   > checkplace.py is used to test if user searches a valid address  
               
#### 3. visual_crime

* Template:

  + heatmap page(index.html)
   
* Others:

  + Past one year's crime data in Hyde Park is used to display the heatmap. Data is stored in visual_crime/static/route1.js
   
#### 4. analysis

* Template:

  + data analysis page(analysis.html)
         
##### Copywrite

The template of the website is found from the Internet, the copyright is at the bottom of each page.

---
         
###  Run server(IMPORTANT) :

Some functions of website(date and time picker) cannot work in the old version of fire fox in VM. Please run the following code in terminal first to install chrome:

"$ sudo apt-get install chromium-browser"

Then, please go to "03 Website/" and run "$ python manage.py runserver" in the VM terminal. Open Chromium, enter http address: http://127.0.0.1:8000/home.

---     
### Reference
Python Client for Google Maps Services:

https://googlemaps.github.io/google-maps-services-python/docs/

https://github.com/googlemaps/google-maps-services-python


Google map API documents:

https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/geocoding/intro?hl

https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript/earthquakes?hl

https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript/examples/places-autocomplete-addressform?hl

Using marker to diaplay the map:

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/8779886/exceed-23-waypoint-per-request-limit-on-google-directions-api-business-work-lev

Website template:

http://www.free-css.com/free-css-templates/page207/gotya

(analysis/templates/analysis) Make picture larger:

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/37146565/make-an-image-bigger-on-click-and-go-back-to-small-on-second-click
